# Change Log

## 2.1

This release fixes various bugs (mostly workarounds) and improves GPU-bound performance.

New games added to "expected to work" list:
 - The Division (was working already in 2.0, but missing from list)
 - AC: Valhalla (*)
 - Cyberpunk 2077 (**)

(*): Game requires full D3D12 sparse texture support to work.
Currently only works on NVIDIA drivers.
RADV status remains unknown until support for this feature lands in Mesa.

(**): Currently only runs correctly on AMD hardware with RADV and `VK_VALVE_mutable_descriptor_type`.
As of writing, this requires the latest Mesa Git build.
The game has some fatal bugs where it relies on undefined behavior with descriptor management
which this extension works around by accident.
The game will start and run on NVIDIA, but just like what happens without the extension on AMD,
the GPU will randomly hang, making the game effectively unplayable.
A game update to fix this bug would likely make the game playable on NVIDIA as well.

Bug fixes and workarounds:
 - Fix various implementation bugs which caused AC: Valhalla to not work.
 - Work around game bug in Death Stranding where accessing map could cause corrupt rendering.
   (Several games appear to have the same kind of application bug.)
 - Fix corrupt textures in Horizon Zero Dawn benchmark.
 - Fix SM 6.0 wave-op detection for Horizon Zero Dawn and DIRT 5.
 - Work around GPU hangs in certain situations where games do not use D3D12 correctly,
   but native D3D12 drivers just render wrong results rather than hang the system.
 - Fix invalid SPIR-V generated by FP64 code.
 - Fix crash with minimized windows in certain cases.

Performance:
 - ~15% GPU-bound uplift in Ghostrunner. Might help UE4 titles in general.
 - Slightly improve GPU bound performance when fully GPU bound on both AMD and NVIDIA.
 - Slightly improve GPU bound performance on RADV in various titles.
 - Reduce multi-threaded CPU overhead for certain D3D12 API usage patterns.
 - Add support for `VK_VALVE_mutable_descriptor_type` which
   improves CPU overhead, memory bloat, and avoids potential memory management thrashing on RADV.
   Also avoids GPU hangs in certain situations where games misuse the D3D12 API.

Misc:
 - Implement `DXGI_PRESENT_TEST`.
 - Fix log spam when `DXGI_PRESENT_ALLOW_TEARING` is used.

## 2.0

This initial release supports D3D12 Feature Level 12.0 and Shader Model 6.0 (DXIL).

Games expected to work include:

 - Control
 - Death Stranding
 - Devil May Cry 5
 - Ghostrunner
 - Horizon Zero Dawn
 - Metro Exodus
 - Monster Hunter World
 - Resident Evil 2 / 3

Please refer to the README for supported driver versions.

